KAYODE LAB — WEBSITE EDITOR SETUP

The design is unchanged. Pages CMS provides the signed-in editor.
Its configuration is .pages.yml. News, members, gallery stories, publications
and your profile are editable forms backed by the content folder.

ONE-TIME GITHUB UPLOAD
1. Unzip this package.
2. Open your kayode-lab-website repository on GitHub and choose the main branch.
3. Add file > Upload files. Upload these six files and both folders from INSIDE
   this package:
   index.html
   gallery.html
   news.html
   styles.css
   script.js
   cms-content.js
   content/ (entire folder)
   assets/ (entire folder)
4. Commit with message: Add website content editor
5. Add the editor configuration in a second commit:
   - Open CMS_CONFIG.txt from this package and copy its entire contents.
   - In the repository, choose Add file > Create new file.
   - Name the file exactly .pages.yml (including the leading dot).
   - Paste the configuration into the file and commit the change.
   The package also includes .pages.yml, but Finder hides it by default;
   creating the file using CMS_CONFIG.txt avoids needing to find a hidden file.
6. Keep CNAME, existing assets and your GitHub Pages publishing settings.
   Do not upload the ZIP or outer package folder. Do not remove old files
   during setup. news-data.js is no longer read by these updated pages.
7. Wait for the Pages deployment to finish in Actions.

CONNECT YOUR EDITOR
1. Visit https://app.pagescms.org and sign in with your GitHub account.
2. Install/authorize the Pages CMS GitHub App when prompted.
3. Select Only select repositories and choose kayode-lab-website.
4. Open kayode-lab-website and choose main, the branch publishing your site.
5. You should see News, Lab members, Gallery, Publications and Your profile.
   If asked to create a configuration, check that .pages.yml was committed to main.

ADDING AN UPDATE
- Choose a section, add a list item and fill in its labeled fields.
- News: use a month such as 2026-10, a category, headline and story.
- Members: add name, role, academic details, graduation and bio. Upload/select
  a portrait. Display a public email only with permission. Members appear in
  the order you arrange them in the list.
- Gallery: add a photo, title, YYYY-MM date, photo description and short story.
  The coming-soon panel disappears when the first photo is added.
- Publications: add title, journal, year and link. DOI and lettering style
  are optional. All entries appear on the homepage, newest year first.
- Your profile: update your information, photo, LinkedIn or public CV PDF.
- Click Save in the editor. Saving to main commits the content to GitHub and
  publishes it through your existing GitHub Pages process after deployment.
  This setup does not add a draft/approval stage, so save ready-to-publish text.
- Open https://kayodelabs.com and refresh once deployment has finished.
  News automatically keeps the newest four on the homepage; Older news shows all.

No GitHub token, password or secret needs to be pasted into the public website.
The editor is signed in; the website only reads the public content files.
Avoid putting private information into fields or uploaded documents.

LOCAL REVIEW BEFORE UPLOAD
Put this unzipped folder on your Desktop. In Terminal:
cd ~/Desktop/kayode-lab-final-with-editor
python3 -m http.server 8000
Open http://localhost:8000. Stop any previous server with Control+C first.

WHAT HAS BEEN CHECKED
HTML file/anchor links, JavaScript syntax, the four-item news limit, archive
sorting, existing content, gallery entries, optional member photos, email
consent, JSON/config parsing and failed-load handling.
The signed-in Pages CMS connection must be checked after you authorize it.

Documentation: https://pagescms.org/docs/quick-start/
